---
layout: page
title: crystals
status: published
permalink: /sky/
---

The first thing that everyone noticed was the effect that they had on the light. Like everything with the crystals, it was very subtle. A patch of air would appear to shimmer, almost like an oil slick suspended in space. They were difficult to look at directly -- people would describe a feeling of being 'caught' by them, like an itch, or a nick in the fabric of reality. 

Initial studies of the crystals were inconclusive. Scientists reasoned that they might be a form of mass hysteria, though this reasoning slowed when scientists, too, began to encounter them. Their appearance would happen in seemingly random clusters, as if the air in a particular suburban neighbourhood would suddenly curdle, little pieces of information seeping through.

Some people claimed to be able to feel the crystals -- or, kind of. Mostly it was described as a kind of a warm static, a crackling fuzz that didn't seem to be all quite there. Even as they became more present, they remained challenging to talk about. There was no consensus on what they were, whether they were good or bad, how long they'd been there -- whether there was even anything unusual about them, per se. Perhaps people were just more sensitive to such things.

What had initially been described as a warm shimmer would take on the characteristics of more complex structures. Different people would see different things -- cities, towers, fine machinery. Looking further into the sky, they would appear to be more well-defined.

Tests were done that demonstrated that although people saw different things in the crystals, there were odd commonalities between them. Little repeating patterns, tiny details and fragments. The word 'crystal' came from one of these studies -- a theory that what we were seeing was light refraction, which necessarily depended heavily on the viewpoint of the observer.

This theory had remained very popular, until the precipitation event. It was preceded in the days before by an increased incidence of sightings and visibility of the crystals. The event seemed to start very high up -- shadows appeared on the streets before anything became visible at ground level. Over the course of a few hours, however, they began to work their way down from the sky. A waxiness in the air would solidify, slowly coming into being. This waxy substance was decidedly tangible -- as it thickened from the air it blocked roads and corridors, materialising inside of schools and shops. In the time it took part of the air to solidify, it was possible to get out of the way, but a number of people who hadn't been able to move as fast required melting-out.

At this point, the crystal world ceased to be purely a philosophical curiosity, and became a real nuisance, with the potential to devastate the economy. In the three weeks post the precipitation event, global research funding for crystal-related sciences had increased tenfold. Tens of thousands of tonnes of the waxy material needed to somehow be cleared and recycled, but it wasn't clear exactly what it could be used for. The crystals, meanwhile, had subsided to their status as mild background noise, albeit with more of a lurking quality. 
