---
layout: page
title: demiurge
status: published
permalink: /demiurge/
---

"I do wish you wouldn’t smoke so much".

Robert sat across the table from his mother, both staring into the middle distance. She glanced across to try and gauge his expression, but a beam of light momentarily dazzled her, and she heard a sucking sound as his features re-arranged.

He took a final drag, somewhat spitefully, and stubbed it out. *"Thank you for coming to visit."*

She reached out a hand and placed it gently on top of his raw, red knuckles. "Wouldn’t you rather be..." She stopped herself. She might not like it here, with its lino floors and cold, cream walls, but Robert was clearly here by choice. There was no making him do anything he didn’t want to do. It also wasn’t exactly like she wanted him at home.

Robert lit another cigarette and started levitating millimetres above his chair, reinforcing the point. The movement was too subtle to be seen by the heavy, mild-looking man stood by the door. "Do they know about..." she gestured to the levitation.

He twitched slightly. "No."

"Then what on earth do you talk about?"

"Oh, you know... " a deep sigh. He shrugged. "There’s enough. I don’t really want to get into it."

"Ok."

Robert filled the long silence by methodically liquefying old pieces of blu tak stuck to the clinic walls.

"I hate to see you wasting your talents like this, you know?"

The blu tak gathered in a seething pool around one of the table legs, and started to tip it slightly. The skin on Robert’s knuckles alternately rippled and smoothed. It wasn’t that they wouldn’t have noticed -- surely -- she supposed. Perhaps they were just too polite. Or maybe it wasn’t how they did things here.

After another long silence she sighed, stood, and left the room. As her footsteps echoed down the hall, the man gave Robert a sympathetic glance. Small dazzle. No movement. Robert set the table on fire and lit a cigarette from it.
